Do not respond to negativity.
You will, over and over.
Remember this and do better next time.

Mentors are critical.
Everyone needs a mentor, always.
Eventually, you will have many mentors, even if not formally.
If you are lucky, the companies that you work at will recognize the power of mentoring.
More often, they will not.
Mentors do not have to be older than you or more experienced than you or in the same career as you.
The onus is often on you to find mentors, and the onus is always on you to recognize the best mentors in your life and keep in touch.

Tell your coworkers when they've done something well, even for tiny things.
Especially for tiny things.
Do this publicly when you can.
Simple recognition goes a long way.
Most people don't get nearly enough of it.

You will, at some point, think that you can do someone else's job better than they can.
This is the most dangerous thought.
It will not harm anyone except for yourself, and can put you on a dark timeline.
Recognize this thought and kill it silently.
Use this opportunity to build empathy.
Do you actually understand what their job encompasses?
What do they do every day?
What challenges do they face?
Can you help them improve, if they actually need to?
Can you provide feedback?
Talk to them.

If you wake up with fire in your belly, do not waste time on things that you're not passionate about.
This might mean ignoring things that seem higher priority.
Be responsible, but do not waste that energy.
It is fleeting.

Spending more hours at a computer to be productive is often a lie.
Do not lie to yourself.
If you are being productive, recognize it, and keep pushing.
If you are not, spend time doing something else, even if that means just going for a walk.
You will be more productive later.

Meetings are often a waste of time.
The content or lack thereof often expands to meet the allotted time.
It is everyone's job to call out when a meeting is off track or not effective.
Feeling uncomfortable doing this is a sign of a team that needs to develop trust.
Do not do things just because they are rituals.

Technical recruiters have a hard job.
They have to absorb a ton of terminology without having the same context as the people that they are trying to hire.
Respond to every recruiter that reaches out, which usually means politely declining.
If a recruiter has done a great job in understanding what you do and why you may be a good fit, recognize that.
Help people learn.

Perspective makes all the difference.
Try to understand what might motivate people to act the way that they are.
This is especially helpful for understanding people above you in a hierarchy.
You do not have all of the context.
Often, you have very little context.
Since you've never been in their position, it can be difficult to try to understand this.
Reading books can help, but don't think that you know anything just because you read a book.

Self-help books are cheesy and lame and always seem like common sense when you are reading them.
The key is that they serve as reminders.
Read them and try to keep the ideas in your head.
These ideas will fade over time, often quickly.
Try to share with others.
Try to surround yourself with people that want to discuss these things.

There is no such thing as a natural born leader.
Everyone can be a leader.
One of the most important things that you can do in a leadership position is to develop other people's leadership skills.
Leadership is about empowering others.

Some people are not good with numbers.
Some people are not good at providing answers on the spot.
Some people are not good at speaking in meetings.
Some people are not good at communicating in the ways that you are used to.
Most people have some of these traits.
Many people have all of them.
None of these traits make a bad engineer.

Chat apps are wonderful tools, but recognize when email is a more appropriate medium.
